Tsa arch (#808)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/3.1/docs/tsa-arch/why-daml.rst

Design Considerations to Ensure Privacy
---------------------------------------
To ensure privacy, Daml contracts must be designed in a way that models who gets to see which data. Appropriate roles should be assigned to stakeholders within the contract, ensuring that sub-transaction privacy is maintained in compliance with regulatory requirements.

Independent Control
===================
The second key requirement is independent control. Issuers and custodians of digital assets have regulatory and fiduciary responsibilities to control the availability, scalability, and performance of the technology employed for tokenized asset transactions. They also need to comply with regulatory requirements such as Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML). Therefore, they need to control the access to assets and transactions. They need control over the smart contracts for any special scenarios that need corrections or overriding. Finally, the technology must be able to evolve to continue to comply with new regulations.

Architectural Considerations to Ensure Independent Control
----------------------------------------------------------

> For these reasons, app users must have full control over their legal system of records. If an app user relies solely on the app provider’s participant node, reconciliation challenges may resurface, since it would need to integrate its system of records with the app provider’s participant node. Instead, the app user should deploy their own participant node that serves as their primary source of data to maintain data sovereignty and independent control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For these reasons, app users must have full control over their legal system of records. If an app user relies solely on the app provider’s participant node, it would need to integrate its system of records with that node, potentially recreating reconciliation challenges. Instead, the app user should deploy its own participant node that serves as its primary data source to maintain data sovereignty and independent control.
```

> From here, they can choose to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, the app user can choose to:
```

> Use the frontend published by the app provider or develop their own for full control and customized functionalities.
> Develop and maintain their own backend to perform backend automation and integration with internal systems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the frontend published by the app provider or develop its own for full control and customized functionalities.
* Develop and maintain its own backend to perform automation and integration with internal systems. 
```

App users can gradually build their infrastructure through a staged adoption model, gaining flexibility in how much control they want. They can begin by using the app provider’s frontend and gradually move toward fully customizing their backend to meet their unique operational and regulatory needs. This approach allows app users to independently control adoption costs while steadily gaining full control over access, availability, scalability, and performance. 

Long-Term Value
***************
Strategic Value of Cross-Application Transactions
=================================================

> The second key value driver—synchronization and connectivity across multiple applications—enables long-term strategic benefits by creating a broader Daml and Canton ecosystem. In this ecosystem, Daml and Canton act not just as record-keeping systems, but as platforms that enable network effects and exponential value through interconnected applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second key value driver, synchronization and connectivity across multiple applications, enables long-term strategic benefits by creating a broader Daml and Canton ecosystem. In this ecosystem, Daml and Canton act not just as record-keeping systems, but as platforms that enable network effects and exponential value through interconnected applications.
```

For example, an app provider may start by tokenizing assets and maintaining an asset registry. Once the registry is operational, other app providers can develop complementary services, such as trading and settlement apps, which further increase the utility of the assets and extend the operational gains, such as removal of reconciliation costs, risk-free settlement, and reduction in turnaround times.

By connecting these applications, the platform transforms into a marketplace, attracting more app providers to build additional apps and app users to subscribe to those services. This results in exponentially growing value through an expanding network.

Enablement of Native Interoperability
=====================================

> To realize the strategic value, the smart contracts of these applications must be deployed and integrated at the same protocol-level to enable interoperability. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To realize this strategic value, these applications must deploy and integrate smart contracts at the same protocol level to enable interoperability. 
```

> Canton enables interoperability by combining two types of smart contracts. Internal smart contracts that model the business logic, and integration smart contracts that provide an API, allowing external applications to connect to. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Canton enables interoperability by combining two types of smart contracts:
* Internal smart contracts that model the business logic
* Integration smart contracts that provide an API, allowing external applications to connect to. 
```
To connect to what?

> By designing internal and integration smart contracts, app providers can compose higher order apps and derive long term value from their Daml applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By designing internal and integration smart contracts, app providers can compose higher-order apps and derive long-term value from their Daml applications.
```

Key Takeaways
*************
1. The first value driver of a Daml app is synchronization within an application, which reduces operational costs and opens opportunities for real-time workflows.
2. The second value driver is synchronization across applications, creating long-term value by enabling network effects and opening new market opportunities.

> 3. App providers can offer real-time synchronization and connectivity between app-users and applications while preserving stakeholders’ sovereignty and privacy. App users benefit from cost savings, and real-time cross-organizational workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. App providers can offer real-time synchronization and connectivity between app users and applications while preserving stakeholders’ sovereignty and privacy. App users benefit from cost savings and real-time cross-organizational workflows.
```

> 4. Privacy and independent control are critical for regulatory compliance. Daml ensures privacy through role-specific views, and independent control through participant nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Privacy and independent control are critical for regulatory compliance. Daml ensures privacy through role-specific views and independent control through participant nodes.
```
